This is Katherine McShane interviewing for the Swicker Carnival project, Cardiff Carnival's
25th anniversary heritage project and I'm here with Bud Harper on the 16th of October 2014
and we're and the time is 25 past 10 in the evening and we're in Peniland Cardiff. Bud,
could you spell your name for us? Oh right okay yeah Bud and then my surname H-A-R-P-E-R.
Brilliant. So obviously this is a carnival project, how did you get involved in the
carnival? Ah my older brother, I had an older brother and yeah it must be one summer he just said
come and get involved come come to this place come to Tays Community Centre.
Um don't yeah I don't really reckon that I just remember being taken along there.
I can't remember whether I really knew anybody else there. I just went along with him and quickly.
How old were you then? So if it was 94, I think is the first one that I did, I would have been 19.
Yes I actually that surprises me because I felt I've looking back I felt like I was really young.
Yeah but it must be 94. So I started because it was yeah it was definitely Tays. I was quite shy.
I remember there was lots of you know it was for Tays you know it was just people making costumes
every day and that you know you'd come in there was food. I don't know whether I remember going
to you know the opening night because I do remember from that period that opening night was quite
special that you know that was definitely the following year is that you'd make sure that you
were down there for the opening night. There was always lots of nice food, it was a good kind of
party atmosphere. And so what do you remember about that first carnival then you were involved in?
It's all the characters and yeah just lots and lots of different people and just you know it was
very big it was always seem very busy. It was a real hive of activity and I suppose at that age
where you know I was really it was a real introduction to kind of the adult world it felt like and
to quite a creative world so there were lots of musicians, lots of percussion,
lots of people making things you know it felt very creative and a bit anarchic.
Yeah certainly you know you might come in on a Saturday and there'd just be people everywhere
in all different ages you know there were definitely some people. I suppose it was always
quite interesting most people felt older than me but there were other young people there and you
would kind of check each other out. I was quite shy at that age.
Okay but you carried on going year after year? Yeah and it was the same you know certainly for
the first couple years that you know you'd go back the next year and you'd see people that you'd
seen the year before and over the years you'd make more of an effort I think to build you know
after three years you'd even if you hadn't talked to some of those people that the next year you'd
come back you'd they were like people you did know even though if you hadn't spoken to them
so you'd make a bit more you know nice to see you again.
But yeah just characters you know obviously there was Steve was always at the forefront.
Of course. Yeah you know it was interesting even when I was quite young
you know you could work you know you became aware of who was working there. It was you know like a
little hierarchy you know and but which people were always there even if they were volunteers
you know there were some yeah people who were just like star warts of I don't know even
necessarily know their names but just people you would recognize you might see them other
places I suppose during the year as well. Is there anyone you do remember particularly?
Yeah I think when I first started going down at Tom and Ali were quite big characters
because I was musical when I started so I was always keen to get involved in the music side
stuff and you know I was learning instruments myself but actually that whole thing of collective
drumming was really interesting and new and it was I suppose it was around the time as well of
you know kind of rave and stuff so kind of percussion and drumming and
that kind of tribal stuff and yeah a couple of years we I can't remember if we played along to
other stuff but we were all quite into our younger age group you know we're very kind of affected by
that kind of rave culture and I think we brought on actually we brought along quite a youthful
exuberance to some of the older ones you know I think we did bring something to the party at
the time it felt like we were quite you know up for doing you know yeah brought a lot of enthusiasm
but yeah the two things I suppose that you remember was one was you know every year getting
involved in the drumming and you know it was different every year you'd have a different
thing going on different people organizing it different kind of themes as such so yeah some
years it we did more strict kind of samba-y stuff that I know I particularly remember the one year
with Tom where it was just all rusty bits of metal and that was really and we had some ridiculous
float you know that was it was like a gosh yeah I remember people welding you know we
they built like a big metal construction was it the car yeah and when I see these people are John
I don't know I can't even remember his name punk John who used to go out with Anne for years
for years he was in he was always in Newport punk bands I can't remember
yeah I know him for you know it's funny that having known him for years later that was the
first time I ever met him it's funny to think gosh yeah I forgot that they did carnival
but that was yeah brilliant that was really anarchic I think I drummed
my drum that year was an exhaust exhaust off something and I just made a horrible noise
and I just beat it incessantly but yeah so the other thing then was the costumes that you made
and I think obviously looking back at the early my early days of doing carnival that it's quite
easy to remember those as being the best the best ones but I think actually what was what I really
did like about those in in relation to making costumes it was it was a bit more freedom to make
what you what you liked so you were you know you had to make your own costume which I think in
later years it became a little bit more synchronized and you had people making costumes for you and you
could kind of I was definitely in later years I was someone due to commitments that I could turn
up quite late into carnival you know a couple of days beforehand and pick up a drum and and
somebody would have made a costume for me and I think you miss out a little bit I mean I think
that's what you need a bit for everybody isn't it and some people that's all they can commit to
but yeah the first couple of years like we just used to make the most ridiculous costumes as well
what kind of what sort of things did you dress up as then well you couldn't really call them
anything the the one I dressed up it was it I mean there wasn't a theme so you could just dress up
there was just a load of materials and things but you could do what you like um the one year
there was loads of foam I don't know where it came from or what it was being used for
but I don't think it was specifically to be how a costume made and I
I was always rubbish at making costumes I was I was quite well known for my poor costumes
oh that was the stuff the thing was I was never I was never very good at making things and
I always my abiding memory of early years of costumes was with the willow you know not
curly willow but that wicker kind of bendy withy yeah thin bits of wood and that everybody had to
make stuff you know that was what you made you know I understand that you make all the frames
out of that stuff but that was and I never got on with that stuff so I didn't make I didn't want to
make stuff it was a real hive of activity and I suppose at that age where you know I was
really it was a real introduction to kind of the adult world it felt like and and to quite a creative
world so there were lots of musicians lots of percussion lots of people making things
you know it felt very creative and a bit anarchic
yeah certainly you know you might come in on a saturday and there'd just be people everywhere
in all different ages you know there were definitely some people I suppose it was always
quite interesting most people felt older than me but there were other young people there and you
would kind of check each other out so you would I was quite I was quite shy at that age
okay but you carried on going oh yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah and it was the same you know certainly
for the first couple years that you know you'd go back the next year and you'd see people that
you've seen the year before and over the years you'd make more of a an effort I think to
to build you know after three years you even if you hadn't talked to some of those people that
the next year you'd come back you'd they were like people you did know even though if you hadn't
spoken to them so you'd make a bit more you know nice to see you again but yeah just characters
you know obviously there was Steve was always at the forefront of course and just yeah you know it
was it was interesting even when I was quite young you know you you could work you know you
you became aware of who was working there it was you know like a little hierarchy you know and
but which people were always there even if they were volunteers you know there were some
yeah people who were just like stalwarts of I don't know even necessarily know their names
but just people you would recognize you might see them other places I suppose during the year as
well is there anyone you do remember particularly yeah I think when I first started going down at
Tom and Ali were quite big characters because I was musical when I started so I was always keen
so I was always keen to get involved in the music side stuff and
you know I was learning instruments myself but actually that whole thing of collective drumming
was really interesting and new and it was I suppose it was around the time as well of
you know kind of rave and stuff so kind of percussion and drumming and
that kind of tribal stuff and yeah a couple of years we I can't remember if we played along to
other stuff but we were all quite into our younger age group you know we're very kind of affected by
that kind of rave culture and I think we brought on actually we brought along quite a useful
exuberance to some of the older ones you know I think we did bring something to the party at the
time it felt like we were quite you know up for doing you know yeah brought a lot of enthusiasm
but yeah the two things I suppose that you remember was one was you know every year
getting involved in the drumming and you know it was different every year you'd have a different
thing going on different people organizing it different kind of themes as such so yeah some
years we did more strict kind of samba-y stuff that you know I particularly remember the one
year with Tom where it was just all rusty bits of metal and that was really and we had some
ridiculous float you know that was it was like a gosh yeah I remember people welding you know we
they built like a big metal construction was it the car yeah and when it seems people are John
and you know I don't know I can't even remember his name punk John who used to go out with Ann
for years he was his name was always in Newport punk bands I can't remember you know I mean
yeah I know him for you you know it's funny that having known him for years later that was the
first time I ever met him it's funny to think gosh yeah I forgot that they did carnival
but that was yeah brilliant that was really anarchic I think I drummed
my drum that year was an exhaust exhaust off something and I just made a horrible noise
and I just beat it incessantly but yeah I suppose the other thing then was the costumes that you
made and I think obviously looking back at the early my early days of doing carnival that it's
quite easy to remember those as being the best the best ones but I think actually what was
what I really did like about those in in relation to making costumes it was
it was a bit more freedom to make what you what you liked so
you were you know you had to make your own costume which I think in later years it became a little
bit more synchronized and you had people making costumes for you and you could kind of I was
definitely in later years I was someone due to commitments that I could turn up quite late into
carnival you know a couple of days beforehand and pick up a drum and and somebody would have made
a costume for me and I think you miss out a little bit I mean I think that's what you need a bit for
everybody isn't it some people that's all they can commit to but yeah the first couple of years
like we just used to make the most ridiculous costumes as well what kind of what sort of things
did you dress up as then well you couldn't really call them anything the the one I dressed up it
was it I mean there wasn't a theme so you could just dress up there was just a load of materials
and things but you could do what you like the one year there was loads of foam I don't know where
it came from or what it was being used for but I don't think it was specifically to be
how a costume made and I I was always rubbish at making costumes I was I was quite well known for
my poor costumes
that was the stuff the thing was I was never I was never very good at making things and
my abiding memory of early years of costumes was with the willow you know curtain not curly
willow but that wicker kind of bendy withy yeah thin bits of wood and that everybody had to make
stuff you know that was what you made you know I understand that you make all the frames out of
that stuff but that was and I never got on with that stuff so I didn't make I didn't want to make
stuff so what did you make from it so yeah they were these really large chunks of foam it was
like they'd been ripped out of like a seating or something I just uh I can't even I've got a pair
of scissors maybe just hollowed out a great big cube of stuff and just stuck it on my head
it was just like the most misshapen it wasn't anything in particular it just seemed kind of
I thought it I didn't even think it was funny I just thought I'd be cool so I had a bit I suppose
a little bit look a bit like spongebob just this great big yeah yeah just a huge bit of foam and I
think it was a bit of an odd shape it maybe looked a bit like an anvil and I just hollowed
out a bit so I could see out of it and breathe yeah I vaguely remember it used to yeah it rubbed
I you know you perspire on it it wasn't me foam risen yeah yeah and that I think
did I wear I can't remember what I wore like a curtain or something ridiculous and then another
year which I haven't got any photos of that one there's some photos of me dressed up as a tree
when I borrowed my mum's nightgown like she had like a it was like a turquoise
thing and I just had yeah I had a very strange hat that I made out of branches
but I think I found I found some branches in a park just brought them along to carnival
but they weren't one thing and then another year I